okay so explain to everybody who's
watching and
listening how you're involved right from
the place where the uranium is still in
the ore in the ground like what has to
happen at each step along the way so
that the fuel actually gets to one of
your reactors and how how is your
company situated to make that happen and
where are you in that process so
starting at the very basic uranium
mining you mentioned this scatch from
deposit
so you you you mine the uranium but the
ore is effectively not very useful for
anything but you you you subject that
ore to a leeching process and you create
a yellow cake which is essentially more
concentrated uranium um that then would
be shipped off for a conversion where we
sit in that is that we've actually
reached out to Central Asia where almost
the majority of the world uranium is
currently being mined it doesn't have to
come from but say there are big in like
Wyoming and skatan that are not
producing uranium readily now in enough
quantities to meet the demand and so it
is coming from abroad I believe those
domestic deposits will be built up now
that the uranium price is rising because
like cop 28 announces trip they the
necessity to Triple nuclear energy by
2040 or whatever it is so that that is
having an effect on the uranium price
which is encouraging Mine Development
but the problem with mining is that it
can take
five years from a green field deposit to
get to a to a mine and so you always
have that lag and if the lag if during
that lag the uranium price drops and
that could even hit that might even even
coming to commercial production so it's
it's there's a lot of risk associated
with you know not having your own
domestic facilities in place so we have
reached out to them we do have an
ability at the president's office within
certain countries in Central Asia to
Source uranium directly if we
and we've even talked with the largest
uranium materials broker in the world to
make sure that we have a supply of that
because no business wants to make wants
to like have the risk that you have all
you build all these facilities and
reactors and Manufacturing facilities
but the the raw material that fuels all
this isn't there so that there's that
component to it too well do you worry do
you worry that you're dealing with these
like say Central Asian see again it it I
bring it brings me back to the same
thing well if you could have a resource
in Wyoming or let's say in Saskatchewan
that seems to me to be a lot more
geopolitically stable in any real sense
than trying to Source something Halfway
Around the World in countries that are
definitely not politically stable and so
so why were you compelled to go seek out
suppliers elsewhere well the the it's
the immediacy of Supply like they are
able to supply material now and that is
a major advantage over we have a mind
and it's that even feasibility level you
still need to put the mine works in
place the processing plant in place
processing plant from uranium operation
could be quarter of a billion dollars
and take three years to build and so we
want to make sure that does it have to
take three years to build I mean you
know because things do move a lot they
could move a lot faster now than they
once did and I'm you know I also wonder
are there improvements in technology
that are in the pipelines that would
make it possible to do it in like a year
instead of three years if people
actually decided they you know I mean
Germany built new natural gas importing
terminals in months when they needed to
so like we can actually move pretty
quick if we decided it was a good idea
so okay so you said immediacy of Supply
that's what drove you to Central Asia
but it would be better perhaps if there
were domestic supplies that were at
least in the pipelines let's say
domestic Supply from saskat aing would
be would be a lot better of course they
would there's there there's no
geopolitical well there's less
geopolitical
uncertainty um and like for instance
even in Central Asia like they do Supply
China and Russia still with the uranium
that they need for their own programs
too so you're competing against other
countries which are potentially hostile
to the states or Canada or places like
that and if they're looking to wage an
economic war will look for more
exclusive contracts and so you then are
in a competing position for material you
control right seems like a bad yeah like
from a geopolitical perspective that
seems unwise let's put it that way so I
can understand why you guys are doing it
commercially because as you said you
can't afford the delay and fair enough
okay so now do you have a stable Supply
fundamentally can you get can you get
moving with what you're doing you can so
um the the the good part about what
we're doing now is we've we've ensured
that we have broken enough good
relations with certain countries that we
can Source the materal if you want it we
we're not in the business of enrichment
but we could do things like conversion
and get it into a uranium hexafluoride
gas which can go to a licensed
enrichment company like um arano or
centrus and they could enrich the
material for us and once from gas so
what's the relationship between the gas
and the yellow cake so what you want to
do with yellow cake is what once it's
been concentrated by that leeching
process is that you it's easier to
enrich a gas
um uh then it is say say yellow cake
which which you could use a centrifugal
system but um but gas is certainly lot
easier to maneuver and so um if you
would take the yellow cake and you would
expose it to several chemical processes
to turn it into uranium hexafluoride and
it's actually the enrichment companies
will enrich uranium hexl to produce um
well whatever you want want so um
enriched enriched to whatever level the
customer needs it but at that point it
actually needs to be deconverted back to
a solid oh yeah so our company actually
wants to build out that infrastructure
for the country too so take that uranium
hex fluoride convert it to dioxide
hydride sorry uranium dioxide uranium
hydde uranium metal whatever the the
market will need um so that's one
element and then fabrication facility to
tailor it for the specific reactor so
essentially fashion it into Dimensions
composition um mold it with syconium
whatever they want and then and then
sell that and the final part of what we
want to do is build out a transportation
company um so we can actually transport
that around North America
too how would you transport it so we've
actually um been spending about a year
doing this but um we've got a patented
technology now um for a c system that
can transport the most amount of um uh
enriched material so Halo material so
it's enriched up to almost 20% around
North America and we're just in the
process of getting that license now with
with the regulat okay so okay so that's
okay so you you've been working on
solving the transportation problem and
so what are the problems associated with
transport that you've had to solve and
how did you solve those so the
fundamental problem problem with
transport is that you canot have uranium
critically configured what I mean by
that right if you if you uranium is only
actually really radioactive if you push
it all together which is the basis of a
bomb really if you push it together then
it be it triggers itself more and it
sets off a chain reaction and it's the
reactivity creates the heat um so
effectively for Road regulations you
have to you have to store the material
in a structured way to make sure it's
not PR but it doesn't end there there's
a lot of other regulations surrounding
that so is it going to be hit by a plane
or misfire or is it going to fall
underwater or is it going to
fall what are the heat conditions can it
be cold can it be warm and you got to
all these safety scenario so designing a
transportation CK that fits within a
truck that can move a lot of material by
road is a bit of an engineering
challenge but I don't think it's that
that difficult but um it's certainly
something that has not been in place
previously because for smrs and micro
reactors the uranium is enriched
slightly more and because it's enriched
slightly more you need a completely new
CK system and so that's where we thought
oh we'll jump on that and build that out
and that way um when the industry does
take off the SMR micro AC we'll have the
transportation able to move fuel for all
the okay so does that mean I see so that
means that your transportation system in
principle is not only designed to
service your micro reactors but to be
expanded to service these slightly
larger reactors the smrs yeah the good
part and that's the plan yeah that's the
plan so we don't I mean we we're not in
the business where we want the other
competitors to fail if they win we'll
win right yes yes right absolutely yeah
the right number of competitors isn't
zero no exactly yeah and also we want
them to succeed because um they'll build
out the infrastructure they'll generate
more money within the country for this
industry and we'll be we'll be
beneficiary of that too and they want to
move fuel we'll help them move fuel they
want to fabricate fuel we'll fabricate
it for them even if they outsell our
reactors it's fine like right so you can
also be in on you can also be in on
their success in that situation too as
okay so that's cool okay so you said
you've got a supply at least at the
moment in Central Asia that gets uh
reduced to by leeching to yellow cake
the yellow cake is transformed into uh
uranium hydro hydro what's the name of
the gas yeah hexafluoride hex fluoride
uranium hexif fluide that can be uh
concentrated and then converted back
into about
20% you said uhuh and so why 20% and
then and what and you can transport it
at 20% and you can do that safely and
you can do that by rail by Ship by car
or or by uh By by Train and and so now
you have the 20% enriched material what
do you do with that when you get it to
where it's supposed to go so um depends
where it's going so if it's going to um
if it's the 20% enriched uranium hex
floride that'll need to be converted
into uranium dioxide hydride whatever
fuel form you want effectively oh so are
you transporting the gas we go well we
don't want to I don't want to speak
preemptively okay that well that's fine
yeah but actually no it's fine we do
want to um Branch take our CK and modify
it so it can move gas um I see okay okay
anticipation is that currently um we are
building out a deconversion plan to be
able to convert that gas into other
forms and then when they're in other
forms um it's easier to fabricate into
the final uranium um form that the
customers might want
[Music]